H-4088: Document event-driven knowledge graphs (#6498)
hashintel/hash: apps/hashdotai/glossary/WIP_labeled-property-graphs.mdx

slug: labeled-property-graphs
tags: ["Graphs"]
---

# **Data Modeling Principles**

## **Structure of Labeled Property Graphs**

A **labeled property graph (LPG)** consists of *entities* (also called nodes or vertices) and *links* (relationships or edges), each of which can have a series of attributes associated with it which contain relevant information. In an LPG, entities have simple textual labels like `Person` or `Product`, and so do links - for example, `Friends With` or `Purchased`. These help categorize entities and links.

In more advanced "LPG inspired" systems like HASH, instead of using simple textual labels, entities and links are assigned one or more [entity types](/guide/types/entity-types) or [link types](/guide/types/link-types) (as appropriate).

In LPGs, both entities and links can have any number of _properties_, which are key–value pairs storing additional information (for example, a Person node might have properties like `name:"Alice"` and `age:30`). In HASH, both entities and links can contain any number of properties, or other _links_ (allowing links to point to other links, as required).

> In LPGs and HASH, links are usually **directed**, meaning they have start and end at specific entities, though in some use cases direction can be ignored or traversed in both ways as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In LPGs and HASH, links are usually **directed**, meaning that one entity is the source and the other is the target, and which is which is important – though in some use cases direction can be ignored or traversed in both ways as needed.
```

The LPG model is best understood with a simple example. Consider two `Person` entities and a friendship between them:

```
CREATE (p:Person { name: "Alice", age: 30 });
CREATE (q:Person { name: "Bob", age: 32 });

> CREATE (p)-[:Friends With]->(q);

Reviewer: Not a suggestion but just to note that in a directed graph, this example means that Alice is friends with Bob but Bob is not known to be friends with Alice (which is a possible real-world situation!)
